# Chapter 3: Static and Dynamic Analysis

## 3.3 Dynamic Analysis

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 13/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

### Objective

- Dynamic analysis is used to detect failures where the symptoms are only visible when the code is
  executed.

  ```markdown
  - For example, the possibility of memory leaks may be detectable by static analysis (finding
    code that allocates but never frees memory), but a memory leak quickly detectable with dynamic
    analysis.
  ```

### 3.3.1 Overview

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 13/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

- It's particularly useful for identifying issues like memory leaks that may not be detectable through static analysis.
- Failures that are intermittent or not immediately reproducible can have significant consequences on testing efforts and software release.
- Such failures can result from memory/resource leaks, incorrect use of pointers, or system stack corruptions.
- Testing strategies should account for these risks and use dynamic analysis tools to reduce them, preferably starting early in the project.
- Dynamic analysis can:
  - Prevent failures by detecting memory leaks and wild pointers.
  - Analyze system failures that are hard to reproduce.
  - Evaluate network behavior.
  - Improve system performance using code profilers.
- It can be performed at any test level.
- Skills required for dynamic analysis include specifying test objectives, determining the right time for analysis, and analyzing the results.
- Dynamic analysis tools can be used by Technical Test Analysts with minimal technical skills, as they generate comprehensive logs that can be analyzed by technically skilled individuals.

### 3.3.2 Detecting Memory Leaks

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 13/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

- Memory leaks happen when allocated memory (RAM) isn't released when no longer needed.
- This can lead to problems like running out of usable memory, especially in low memory situations.
- Historically, programmers were responsible for releasing dynamically allocated memory.
- Modern programming environments often have automatic or semi-automatic "garbage collection" to free allocated memory.
- Detecting memory leaks can be challenging, especially when automatic garbage collectors should free memory.
- Memory leaks usually cause issues over time, with a steadily worsening system response time and potential system failure.
- Restarting the system can resolve some failures, but it may not always be practical.
- Dynamic analysis tools can identify areas in the code where memory leaks occur for correction.
- Simple memory monitors can offer a general sense of declining available memory, but further analysis is needed to pinpoint the exact cause.

### 3.3.3 Detecting Wild Pointers

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 13/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

- Wild pointers in a program are pointers that are no longer accurate and should not be used.
- Consequences of using wild pointers include:

  - The program may perform as expected if the wild pointer accesses unused memory or contains a reasonable value.
  - The program may crash if the wild pointer causes critical memory to be used incorrectly.
  - The program may not function correctly if required objects cannot be accessed, possibly with an error message.

    ```javascript
    let obj = { name: "John" };
    let wildPointer = obj;
    obj = null;
    console.log(wildPointer.name);
    ```

  - Data in memory may be corrupted by the wild pointer, posing a security threat.

    ```javascript
    let sensitiveData = "This is confidential data";
    let wildPointer = sensitiveData;
    wildPointer = "Malicious code injected here";
    console.log(sensitiveData);
    ```

- Changes in memory usage, such as a software update, can trigger these consequences.
- Tools and operating systems can help identify and handle wild pointers during program execution.

### 3.3.4 Analysis of Performance Efficiency

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 13/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

- Dynamic analysis is valuable for more than just finding defects; it helps identify **performance bottlenecks**.
- Performance analysis tools generate various performance metrics for developers to optimize system performance.
- These metrics include the frequency of component calls, highlighting candidates for performance improvement.
- The Pareto rule often applies, with 80% of runtime spent in 20% of components.
- Dynamic performance analysis occurs during system tests but can also be done during earlier phases using test harnesses.

### Extra info

```markdown
Tools for Detecting Memory Leaks:

- Chrome DevTools: Developers can take snapshots of the memory and compare them over time to detect leaks.
- Node.js Inspector: It helps in analyzing memory usage and detecting leaks.
- WebMemoryProfiler: A Js library for detecting memory leaks in web apps.
```

```markdown
Tools for Handling Wild Pointers:

- ESLint: Help prevent wild pointers by identifying potential issues in the code.
- TypeScript: By providing strong typing, Ts can reduce the risk of wild pointers in Js apps.
```

```markdown
Tools for Performance Analysis in JavaScript:

- Lighthouse: Tool for improving the quality of web pages (performance, accessibility).
```

---

[↑ Table of Contents](../../README.md#table-of-contents) | [← Previous Page](3.2-static-analysis.md) | [Next Page →](../4-quality-characteristics-for-technical-testing/4.1-introduction.md)
