# Chapter 1: The Technical Test Analyst's Tasks in Risk-Based Testing

## 1.2 Risk-based Testing Tasks

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 08/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

### Overview

- Technical Test Analysts perform risk-based testing tasks.
- Tasks include:
  - Risk identification
  - Risk assessment
  - Risk mitigation
- Iterative process adapting to emerging risks and changing priorities.
- Regular evaluation and communication of risk status.

## 1.2.1 Risk Identification

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 08/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

### Process

- Risk identification is about identifying as many pertinent risks as possible.
- Broad stakeholder involvement essential for thorough risk identification.
- Technical Test Analysts use their technical skills for risk identification.
- Techniques include expert interviews, brainstorming, and experience analysis.
- Collaboration with diverse stakeholders: developers, architects, operations engineers, etc.
- Involvement ensures a holistic view of risks.
- Risks often based on ISO 25010 product quality characteristics.

## 1.2.2 Risk Assessment

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 08/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

### Key Points

- Risk assessment is the study of those identified risks to categorize each risk and determine the likelihood and impact associated with it.
- The likelihood of a product risk is usually interpreted as the probability of the occurrence of the failure in the system under test.
- Roles in understanding risks: **TTA** and **TA**.
  - **TTA** contributes to understanding the **_probability_** of each technical product risk.
  - **TA** contributes to understanding the potential business **_impact_** of the problem should it occur.

#### Project risk factors

Project risks that become issues can _impact the overall success of the project_. Factors to be considered:

- Conflict between stakeholders regarding technical requirements
- Communication problems resulting from the geographical distribution of the development organization
- Tools and technology (including relevant skills)
- Time, resource, and management pressure
- Lack of earlier quality assurance
- High change rates of technical requirements

#### Product risk factors

Product risks that become issues _may result in higher numbers of defects_. Factors to be considered:

- Complexity of technology
- Code complexity
- Amount of change in the source code (insertions, deletions, modifications)
- Large number of defects found relating to technical quality characteristics (defect history)
- Technical interface and integration issues

- Given the available risk information, the TTA proposes an initial risk likelihood according to the guidelines established by the TM.
- The initial value may be modified by the TM when all stakeholder views have been considered.
- The risk impact is normally determined by the Test Analyst.

## 1.2.3 Risk Mitigation

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: 08/01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊
```

### Responsibilities

- TTA influence how testing responds to identified risks.
  - Designing test cases for those risks addressing high risk areas and helping to evaluate the residual risk
  - Reducing risk by executing the designed test cases and by putting into action appropriate mitigation and contingency measures as stated in the test plan
  - Evaluating risks based on additional information gathered as the project unfolds, and using that information to implement mitigation measures aimed at decreasing the likelihood of those risks

The TTA will often cooperate with specialists in areas such as **security** and **performance** to define risk mitigation measures and elements of the test strategy.

---

[↑ Table of Contents](../../README.md#table-of-contents) | [← Previous Page](1.1-introduction.md) | [Next Page →](../2-white-box-test-techniques/2.1-introduction.md)
