# Chapter 5: Reviews

## 5.2 Using Checklists in Reviews

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: /01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊😐🤢🤮
```

- Checklists are utilized during reviews to ensure specific points are verified.
- Checklists help to make the review process less personal, indicating that the same standards apply to everyone's work.

### Types of Checklists

#### Generic Checklists

- Used for all reviews, focusing on verifying the proper usage of terms like ("shall", "should"), formatting, and similar conformance items.

#### Focused Checklists

- Target specific quality aspects or areas like security or performance efficiency.

#### Development of Checklists

- Best when developed by the organization itself, as they reflect:
  - The nature of the product.
  - The local development environment, including:
    - Staff
    - Tools
    - Priorities
  - History of previous successes and defects.
  - Specific issues such as performance efficiency or security.

#### Customization of Checklists

- They should be tailored to fit the organization and potentially the specific project.
- The chapter provides examples of such checklists.

### 5.2.1 Architectural Reviews

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: /01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊😐🤢🤮
```

- Software architecture consists of the fundamental concepts or properties of a system, embodied in its elements, relationships, and in the principles of its design and evolution [ISO 42010].

- Checklists used for the architectural review aspects of websites, especially focusing on their time behavior. For example, verificaation of the proper implementation of the following items:

  - **Connection Pooling**: Reduces execution time by establishing a shared pool of database connections.
  - **Load Balancing**: Ensures even distribution of load across multiple resources.
  - **Distributed Processing**: Involves processing across multiple computational elements.
  - **Caching**: Utilizes local copies of data to decrease access time.
  - **Lazy Instantiation**: Delays creation of an object until it is needed.
  - **Transaction Concurrency**: Manages concurrent operations without conflicts.
  - **Process Isolation**: Separates Online Transactional Processing (OLTP) and Online Analytical Processing (OLAP).
  - **Data Replication**: Involves duplicating data across systems for reliability and access.

### 5.2.2 Code Reviews

```markdown
✓ Date Completed: /01/2024 - Understanding Level: 😊😐🤢🤮
```

- **Code Review Checklists**: Primarily low-level and more effective when language-specific.
- Including code-level anti-patterns is helpful for less experienced developers.

Checklists used for code reviews could include the following items:

- **Structure**:

  - Does the code completely and correctly implement the design?
  - Does the code conform to any pertinent coding standards?
  - Is the code well-structured, consistent in style, and consistently formatted?
  - Are there any uncalled or unneeded procedures or any unreachable code?
  - Are there any leftover stubs or test routines in the code?
  - Can any code be replaced by calls to external reusable components or library functions?
  - Are there any blocks of repeated code that could be condensed into a single procedure?
  - Is storage use efficient?
  - Are symbolics used rather than “magic number” constants or string constants?
  - Are any modules excessively complex and should be restructured or split into multiple modules?

- **Documentation**:

  - Is the code clearly and adequately documented with an easy-to-maintain commenting style?
  - Are all comments consistent with the code?
  - Does the documentation conform to applicable standards?

- **Variables**:

  - Are all variables properly defined with meaningful, consistent, and clear names?
  - Are there any redundant or unused variables?

- **Arithmetic Operations**:

  - Does the code avoid comparing floating-point numbers for equality?
  - Does the code systematically prevent rounding errors?
  - Does the code avoid additions and subtractions on numbers with greatly different magnitudes?
  - Are divisors tested for zero or noise?

- **Loops and Branches**:

  - Are all loops, branches, and logic constructs complete, correct, and properly nested?
  - Are the most common cases tested first in IF-ELSEIF chains?
  - Are all cases covered in an IF-ELSEIF or CASE block, including ELSE or DEFAULT clauses?
  - Does every case statement have a default?
  - Are loop termination conditions obvious and invariably achievable?
  - Are indices or subscripts properly initialized, just prior to the loop?
  - Can any statements that are enclosed within loops be placed outside the loops?
  - Does the code in the loop avoid manipulating the index variable or using it upon exit from the loop?

- **Defensive Programming**:
  - Are indices, pointers, and subscripts tested against array, record, or file bounds?
  - Are imported data and input arguments tested for validity and completeness?
  - Are all output variables assigned?
  - Is the correct data element operated on in each statement?
  - Is every memory allocation released?
  - Are timeouts or error traps used for external device access?
  - Are files checked for existence before attempting to access them?
  - Are all files and devices left in the correct state upon program termination?

---

[↑ Table of Contents](../../README.md#table-of-contents) | [← Previous Page](5.1-technical-test-analyst-tasks-in-reviews.md) | [Next Page →](../6-test-tools-and-automation/6.1-defining-the-test-automation-project.md)
